Captioning sponsored by
MacNEIL/LEHRER PRODUCTIONS
>> Woodruff: THE DRUG-STORE
CHAIN C.V.S. SAID TODAY IT WILL
STOP SELLING CIGARETTES AND ALL
OTHER TOBACCO PRODUCTS BY
OCTOBER.
GOOD EVENING, I'M JUDY WOODRUFF.
>> Ifill: AND I'M GWEN IFILL.
ALSO AHEAD THIS WEDNESDAY, A
U.N. PANEL'S BLISTERING REBUKE
T HAS
DEALT WITH CLERGY ACCUSED OF
SEXUALLY ABUSING CHILDREN.
>> Woodruff: AND WE GO TO
CALIFORNIA WHERE THERE'S A BIG
PUSH TO GET LATINOS TO SIGN UP
FOR HEALTH INSURANCE.
A GROUP CRITICAL TO THE SUCCESS
OF THE AFFORDABLE CARE ACT.
>> IF YOU LOOK AT, HISTORICALLY,
WHO HAVE BEEN THE UNINSURED, IT
IS THE LATINO COMMUNITY.
>> Woodruff: THOSE ARE JUST
SOME OF THE STORIES WE'RE
COVERING ON TONIGHT'S
PBS NEWSHOUR.
>> Ifill: MILLIONS OF WINTER-
WEARY AMERICANS GOT NO RELIEF
TODAY.
INSTEAD, A NEW SYSTEM KNOCKED
OUT POWER, GROUNDED FLIGHTS AND
SENT CARS CAREENING
THE SECOND MAJOR STORM THIS WEEK
DUMPED SNOW, SLEET AND
FREEZING RAIN FROM THE MIDWEST
TO NEW ENGLAND, CAUSING DELAYS
FOR THOUSANDS OF COMMUTERS AT
AIRPORTS AND ON THE ROAD.
>> I'M WAITING FOR THE SUMMER.
I'VE HAD ENOUGH.
PLEASE, NO MORE SNOW.
>> Ifill: MORE THAN A MILLION
HOMES AND BUSINESSES LOST POWER,
MOST OF THEM IN PENNSYLVANIA.
AND, THE GOVERNORS OF NEW YORK
AND NEW JERSEY DECLARED STATES
OF EMERGENCY.
IN THE MIDWEST, INDIANAPOLIS
BEGAN TRYING TO DIG OUT FROM
EIGHT INCHES OF SNOW THAT FELL
TUESDAY.
AT ONE POINT, A SOUTHWEST JET
ARRIVING IN KANSAS CITY,
MISSOURI, HAD TO BE TOWED OFF A
SNOWBOUND RUNWAY.
>> I CAME HERE BECAUSE I THOUGHT
I WOULD BE GOING SOUTH AND IT
WOULD BE WARMER.
AND IT'S REALLY NOT.
EVEN SO, MANY JUDGED IT SAFE
ENOUGH TO TAKE TO THE STREETS.
>> THE ROADS AREN'T BAD.
I MEAN, IF YOU'VE GOT FOUR WHEEL
DRIVE YOU CAN GET AROUND IN
THIS.
>> Ifill: OTHERS FOUND OUT THE
HARD WAY JUST HOW DANGEROUS THE
ROADS COULD BE.
>> WE'VE HAD A SITUATION WHERE
PEOPLE THOUGHT BECAUSE THEY WERE
IN A FOUR WHEEL DRIVE VEHICLE,
THAT THEY WERE IN INVINCIBLE.
>> Ifill: MEANWHILE, MORE AND
MORE CITIES AND COUNTIES
REPORTED THEY'RE RUNNING SHORT
ON ROCK SALT, AND THE FUNDS TO
PAY FOR STREET PLOWING AND
CLEANUP.
SCHOOL DISTRICTS HAVE THEIR OWN
TROUBLES: MANY ARE RUNNING OUT
OF SNOW DAYS, WHICH MAY FORCE
THEM TO MAKE UP THE LOST TIME
WHEN THE WEATHER FINALLY WARMS
UP.
>> Ifill: THE NATION'S SECOND
LARGEST DRUG STORE CHAIN WILL NO
LONGER SELL TOBACCO PRODUCTS
BEGINNING IN OCTOBER.
C.V.S. MADE THE ANNOUNCEMENT
TODAY, CITING ITS NEW EMPHASIS
ON WORKING WITH DOCTORS AND
HOSPITALS TO IMPROVE PUBLIC
HEALTH.
WE'LL EXPLORE THE HEALTH AND
BUSINESS IMPLICATIONS OF THAT
DECISION, RIGHT AFTER THE NEWS
SUMMARY.
THE UNITED NATIONS HAS
DOCUMENTED NEW HORROR IN THE
SYRIAN CIVIL WAR, THE TORTURE
AND KILLING OF CHILDREN.
A U.N. REPORT, RELEASED
OVERNIGHT, CHARGES GOVERNMENT
FORCES HAVE TORTURED CHILDREN
THEY SUSPECT OF HAVING TIES TO
REBEL GROUPS.
SOME WERE AS YOUNG AS TEN YEARS
OLD.
IT ALSO ACCUSES THE REBELS OF
EXECUTING SOME CHILDREN AND
RECRUITING OTHERS TO FIGHT.
>> Ifill: MEANWHILE, THE SYRIAN
GOVERNMENT MISSED ANOTHER
DEADLINE TODAY FOR DESTROYING
ITS CHEMICAL WEAPONS.
THE REGIME WAS TO HAVE HANDED
OVER ITS ENTIRE ARSENAL BY NOW.
INSTEAD, U.S. OFFICIALS ESTIMATE
ONLY A FRACTION HAVE ACTUALLY
BEEN SURRENDERED.
STILL, WHITE HOUSE PRESS
SECRETARY JAY CARNEY SAID TODAY
THE AGREEMENT IS STILL ALIVE.
>> WE HAVE HEARD FROM THE
RUSSIAN GOVERNMENT THAT IT IS
THEIR EXPECTATION THAT THE ASSAD
REGIME WILL BE DELIVERING A
SUBSTANTIAL PORTION OF ITS
CHEMICAL WEAPONS SUPPLIES AND
ECONOMY IN THE RELATIVELY NEAR
FUTURE.
>> Ifill: THE SYRIAN FOREIGN
MINISTER INSISTED TODAY HIS
GOVERNMENT INTENDS TO MEET THE
JUNE 30 DEADLINE TO COMPLETE THE
PROC
IN IRAQ, MULTIPLE BOMBINGS
ROCKED BAGHDAD TODAY, KILLING AT
LEAST 34 PEOPLE AND WOUNDING
SCORES MORE.
THE WORST WAS NEAR THE IRAQI
FOREIGN MINISTRY, WHERE TWO CAR
BOMBS EXPLODED.
OTHER BOMBS HIT COMMERCIAL
DISTRICTS, AND A SUICIDE
ATTACKER BLEW HIMSELF UP NEAR
THE ENTRATO
THAT HOUSES FOREIGN EMBASSIES.
THE U.S. HAS SHARPLY REDUCISTANS
THE GOVERNMENT THERE SEEKS PEACE
TALKS WITH THE TALIBAN.
"THE WASHINGTON POST" REPORTED
TODAY, PAKISTANI OFFICIALS ASKED
FOR RESTRAINT, AND THE LULL
BEGAN IN DECEMBER.
THE REPORT SAID THE OBAMA
ADMINISTRATION WILL STILL CARRY
OUT STRIKES AGAINST SENIOR AL-
QAEDA TARGETS, IF THE
OPPORTUNITY ARISES.
>> Ifill: A UNITED NATIONS
COMMITTEE LAMBASTED THE VATICAN
TODAY OVER ITS HANDLING OF
PRIESTS WHO SEXUALLY ABUSED
CHILDREN.
THE COMMITTEE ON THE RIGHTS OF
THE CHILD CONDEMNED WHAT IT
CALLED THE ROMAN CATHOLIC
CHURCH'S CODE OF SILENCE.
IT DEMANDED DISCLOSURE OF ALL
FILES ON PEDOPHILE CLERGY AND
BISHOPS WHO CONCEALED THEIR
CRIMES.
>> THE HOLY SEE HAS ADOPTED
POLICINDHICH
HAVE LED TO THE CONTINUATION OF
THE ABUSE BY AND THE IMPUNITY OF
THE PERPETRATORS.
THE HOLY SEE HAS CONSISTENTLY
PLACED THE PRESERVATION OF THE
REPUTATION OF THE CHURCH AND THE
PROTECTION OF THE PERPETRATORS
ABOVE CHILDREN'S BEST INTERESTS.
>> Ifill: THE COMMITTEE ALSO
CRITICIZED CHURCH TEACHINGS
AGAINST HOMOSEXUALITY,
CONTRACEPTION AND ABORTION.
THE VATICAN SHOT BACK THAT THE
REPORT IS DISTORTED, AND IT
ACCUSED THE U.N. PANEL OF
INTERFERING WITH RELIGIOUS
FREEDOM.
WE'LL TAKE A CLOSER LOOK AT THE
REPORT, AND THE RESPONSE, LATER
IN THE PROGRAM.
GOOGLE AGREED TODAY TO DISPLAY
COMPETITORS' LINKS MORE
PROMINENTLY IN EUROPE, TO SETTLE
A MAJOR ANTI-TRUST ACTION.
THE SEARCH GIANT ENTERED A DEAL
WITH THE EUROPEAN UNION, ENDING
A THREE-YEAR INVESTIGATION, AND
AVOIDING A FINE OF UP TO FIVE
BILLION DOLLARS.
GOOGLE HAS A 90% MARKET SHARE IN
EUROPE, COMPARED WITH ABOUT 70%
IN THE U.S.
>> Ifill: WALL STREET SPENT THE
DAY LOOKING FOR DIRECTION AND
MOSTLY, DIDN'T FIND ANY.
THE DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE
LOST FIVE POINTS TO CLOSE AT
15,440.
THE NASDAQ FELL ALMOST 20 POINTS
TO CLOSE AT 4,011.
>> Ifill: THE OLYMPIC TORCH
ARRIVED IN SOCHI, RUSSIA TODAY
SETTING THE STAGE FOR THE WINTER
GAMES TO OPEN ON FRIDAY.
SPECTATORS LINED THE STREETS TO
WATCH THE FLAME PARADED THROUGH
THE HOST CITY.
IT WAS ONE OF THE LAST LEGS ON A
NEARLY 40,000 MILE TRIP THAT'S
TAKEN THE TORCH AROUND THE
WORLD, UNDER WATER AND
EVEN INTO SPACE.
>> Ifill: STILL TO COME ON THE
NEWSHOUR.
C.V.S'. DECISION TO DROP SELLING
TOBACCO PRODUCTS; A U.N. PANEL'S
STINGING REBUKE OF THE VATICAN;
HOW LATINOS ARE CRITICAL TO THE
SUCCESS OF THE AFFORDABLE CARE
ACT; REPORTS OF MORE ETHICAL
LAPSES IN THE U.S. MILITARY;
PLUS, WE KICK OFF A NEW SERIES
ON HOW LAWMAKERS PLAN TO TACKLE
THE COUNTRY'S ECONOMIC DIVIDES.
>> Woodruff: TODAY'S
ANNOUNCEMENT BY C.V.S. THAT IT
WILL STOP SELLING TOBACCO
PRODUCTS THIS FALL RESOUNDED
QUICKLY AND LOUDLY TODAY IN THE
WORLD OF BUSINESS AND PUBLIC
HEALTH.
C.V.S., WHICH HAS 7,600 STORES
NATIONWIDE AND IS CREATING MORE
IN-STORE HEALTH CLINICS, SAID IT
WILL LOSE ABOUT TWO BILLION
DOLLARS ANNUALLY.
BUT IN MAKING THE DECISION, THE
COMPANY'S CHIEF EXECUTIVE,
LARRY MERLO, SAID:
FOR MORE ON THE SIGNIFICANCE OF
THIS DECISION AND WHAT WAS
BEHIND IT, WE TURN TO:
DOCTOR RON DEPINHO, THE
PRESIDENT OF T.D
CANCER CENTER AND STEPHANIE
STROM OF THE NEW YORK TIMES.
WELCOME TO YOU BOTH.
LET ME START WITH YOU,
DR. DEPINHO, HOW SIGNIFICANT DO
YOU THINK A MOVE THIS IS?
>> I THINK THIS IS QUITE
SIGNIFICANT.
IN ISOLATION, IT MAY NOT HAVE A
SPECIFIC IMPACT, BUT IT SEND A
VERY STRONG MESSAGE TO ALL
RETAILERS THAT TOBACCO IS A
DANGEROUS PRODUCT.
IT EXTRACTS A VERY SIGNIFICANT
SOCIAL, ECONOMIC, TOLL ON OUR
SOCIETY THAT IS RESPONSIBLE FOR
ABOUT 20% OF DEATHS IN THE
UNITED STATES, AND ABOUT 30% OF
CANCER DEATHS.
SO IT'S A VERY IMPORTANT
PROBLEM.
AND I GREATLY APPLAUD CVS' BOLD
MOVE IN THIS DIRECTION.
THEY'VE PLACED PEOPLE BEFORE
PROFITS.
>> Woodruff: STEPHANIE STROM,
HOW LONG HAS CVS BEEN THINKING
ABOUT DOING THIS, AND WHY DO
THEY SAY THEY'RE DOING IT?
>> WELL, IT'S REALLY UNCLEAR,
JUDY, HOW LONG THIS HAS BEEN
GOING ON
DISCUSSIONS.
MY OWN GUESS IS THAT LARRY
MERLO, THE C.E.O., WHO IS
HIMSELF A PHARMACIST, STARTED
WITH THE COMPANY 20 YEARS AGO AS
A PHARMACIST, HE MAY HAVE BEEN
SORT OF THINKING IN THIS
DIRECTION BEFORE HE EVEN GOT
INTO THE C.E.O.'S CHAIR.
AND I SUSPECT THEY'VE THOUGHT
ABOUT IT LONG AND HARD.
AND FINALLY CAME TO THE
CONCLUSION THAT NOW IS THE TIME
TO DO IT.
THEY ARE DETERMINED TO BECOME A
HEALTH CARE SERVICES COMPANY, IF
YOU WILL, MORE SO THAN JUST A
RETAIL DRUGSTORE CHAIN.
AND THEY BELIEVE THAT THIS IS
ONE MORE STEP IN THEIR PLAN TO
EVOLVE THAT WAY.
>> Woodruff: WELL, IN
CONNECTION WITH THAT, HOW MUCH
OF A RISK ARE THEY TAKING FROM A
BUSINESS STANDPOINT?
>> WELL, YOU KNOW, THE COMPANY
SAID THAT THEY WOULD-- IT WOULD
REDUCE THEIR SALES BY ABOUT $2
BILLION.
THAT'S NOT ALL CIGARETTES.
THAT'S CIGARETTES PLUS OTHER
THINGS TOBACCO BUYERS MIGHT
PURCHASE AT THE SAME TIME
THEY'RE BUYING THEIR CIGARETTES.
THAT'S OFF THE TOP LINE.
THEY DID ESTIMATAL
BASE, IT WOULD COST THEM ABOUT
17 SENTSZ PER SHARE.
SO IT WILL DEAL A BLOW TO THEIR
PROFITS, IF THEY DON'T FIND A
WAY TO REPLACE THOSE REVENUES.
THEY SAID THAT THEY WOULD
PROBABLY TRY TO REPLACE SOME OF
THOSE REVENUES WITH A NEW
SMOKING CESSATION PROGRAM, THAT
PHYSICIANS, CARE GROUPS,
HOSPITALS, AND OTHERS MIGHT
REFER THEIR PATIENTS TO, WHICH
WOULD, OF COURSE, ADD REVENUES
TO CVS.
UNCLEAR
ABOUT THAT, AND I THINK THAT'S
HIT TODAY.CK TOOK A LITTLE BIT
>> Woodruff: DR. DEPINHO, WEAN
CVS HAS ABOUT 7600 STORES AROUND
THE COUNTRY, BUT WE'RE TOLD
THERE ARE SOMETHING LIKE 250,000
STORES ACROSS THIS COUNTRY WHERE
PEOPLE CAN BUY TOBACCO PRODUCTS.
SO HOW MUCH OF A DENT IS THIS
REALLY IS GOING TO MAKE IN THE
AVAILABILITY OF CIGARETTES?
>> WELL, IN ISOLATION IT MAY NOT
MAKE THAT SIGNIFICANT AN
IMPACTED IN ITSELF.
BUT IF IT GAINS MOMENTUM, IT
WILL HAVE AN IMPACT.
SCIENTIFIC LITERATURE HAS SHOWN
THAT IF YOU REDUCE ACCESS TO
TOBACCO PRODUCTS, YOU ACTUALLY
REDUCE USAGE.
SO IF THIS GAINS MOMENTUM, AND
OTHER RETAILERS, LIKE WAL-MART
AND OTHERS, ALSO FOLLOW THIS
VERY COURAGEOUS PATH FORWARD, IT
CAN HAVE A SIGNIFICANT IMPACT ON
ACCESS TO TOBACCO PRODUCTS AND
THEIR USE.
>> Woodruff: SO, STEPHANIE
STROM, IS IT EXPECTED THAT THESE
OTHER STORES THAT SELL
CIGARETTES, TOBACCO PRODUCTS,
ARE GOING TO FOLLOW SUIT?
>> WELL, BOTH WALL GREENS AND
RITE AID TODAY ISSUED STATEMENTS
SAYING THEY WERE ALWAYS
REEVALUATING THE MIX OF PRODUCTS
THAT THEY SELL, AND THEY WOULD
DO WHAT WAS BEST FOR THEIR
CONSUMERS BY ANSWERING THEIR
CONSUMERS' DEMANDS.
IT IS REALLY UNCLEAR, I THINK AT
THIS POINT, WHETHER OTHERS WILL
FOLLOW SUIT.
THERE WILL BE, HOWEVER, PRESSURE
ON THEM BECAUSE, OF COURSE,
HEALTH CARE ADVOCATES ARE GOING
TO USE AS LEVERAGE.
>> Woodruff: WELL, LET ME--
>> ALSO, I THINK--
>> Woodruff: YEAH, GO AHEAD.
>> ONE POINT THAT MIGHT BE WORTH
MAKING HERE IS THAT WHEN YOU
HAVE THESE SIGNAL EVENTS LOOK AT
WHAT MAYOR BLOOMBERG DID IN NEW
YORK CITY WHEN HE TOOK THE
COURAGEOUS ACT TO BAN TOBACCO
USE, SMOKING IN RESTAURANTS AND
OTHER PUBLIC PLACES AND BARS AND
SO ON.
THAT HAD A TREMENDOUS RIPPLE
EFFECT ACROSS MANY OTHER CITIES
AROUND THE WORLD UAN, AND OTHER
MAYORS, OTHER LEGISLATIVE
OFFICIALS FELT THAT THEY HAD THE
COVER NEEDED TO ALSO PURSUE
BECAUSE OF THE LEADERSHIP OF NEW
YORK CITY IN THIS REGARD.
SO WHILE IN ISOLATION IT MAY NOT
BE THAT IMPACTFUL, SYMBOLICALLY,
IT MAY INSPIRE AND GALVANIZE
MANY OTHERS, PARTICULARLY, THOSE
IN HEALTH CARE, SUCH AS OTHER
PHARMACY CHAINS AND SO ON, TO
REALLY TAKE A STEP TOWARDS
BECOMING INVOLVED IN HEALTH CARE
AS OPPOSED TO DISEASE CARE.
>> Woodruff: SPEAKING OF THAT,
STEPHANIE STROM, WHAT DOES CVS
DO NOW IN THE WAY OF HEALTH
CARE-- BEING A HEALTH CARE
PROVIDER?
AND WHAT MORE DO THEY WANT TO
DO?
>> WELL, CVS HAS GONE FURTHER
THAN ALMOST ANYONE ELSE IN
ESTABLISHING THESE THEY CALL
MINUTE CLINICS, WHICH ARE MINI
CLINICS INSIDE OF THEIR STORES.
THEY'RE TYPICALLY STAFFED BY
NURSE-- PHYSICIANS ASSISTANT, A
NURSE PRACTITIONER, AND YOU CAN
GO IN THERE AND IF YOU HAVE PINK
EYE, THEY CAN TELL YOU YOU HAVE
PINK EYE, AND HERE'S WHAT YOU
NEED TO TAKE FOR IT.
ALSO, THEIR PHARMACISTS ARE
BECOMING MUCH MORE ADVISERS TO
PEOPLE.
THE U.S. HAS LOST A GREAT NUMBER
OF PRIMARY CARE PHYSICIANS OVER
THE YEARS.
AND SO THESE KIND OF MINI
CLINICS IN PLACES LIKE CVS, ARE
STEPPING IN TO THAT ROLE.
IF YOU HAVE A COLD, IF YOU HAVE
STREP THROAT.
>> Woodruff: RIGHT.
>> THE BASIC MEDICAL AILMENTS WE
ALL HAVE FLIMENT.
>> Woodruff: DR. DEPINHO TO
YOU, FINALLY, QUICKLY, YOU'RE
THE HEAD OF A MAJOR HOSPITAL,
MAJOR CANCER CENTER, DO YOU SEE
HEALTH CARE DELIVERY CHANGING IN
THE WAY WE HEAR CVS THINKING
ABOUT DOING IT?
>> WELL, IF YOU LOOK AT THE
AFFORDABLE CARE ACT AND THE
EMPHASIS TODAY, THERE IS A MAJOR
SHIFT TOWARDS PREVENTION AND
EARLY DETECTION OF DISEASE.
IN THE CASE OF CANCER, ABOUT 50%
OF CANCERS ARE PREVENTABLE, AND
TOBACCO PLAYS A MAJOR ROLE IN
THAT IMPACT.
SO I THINK THE ENTIRE HEALTH
CARE SYSTEM IS MOVING TOWARDS,
AS I MENTIONED BEFORE, MORE OF A
HEALTH CARE SYSTEM AS OPPOSED TO
A DISEASE CARE SYSTEM, WHERE WE
CAN BE FAR MORE INTERVENTIVE IN
DISEASE AS OPPOSED TO DEALING
WITH THE PROBLEMS OF ADVANCE
DISEASE.
>> Woodruff: WE WANT TO THANK
YOU BOTH, DR. RON DEPINHO AND
STEPHANIE STROM.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Ifill: THE VATICAN HAS LONG
BEEN CRITICIZED FOR ITS HANDLING
OF SEXUAL ABUSE CASES.
BUT TODAY'S REPORT FROM A UNITED
NATIONS PANEL WAS ESPECIALLY
HARSH.
THE "COMMITTEE ON THE RIGHTS OF
THE CHILD" SAID THE VATICAN HAD
NOT ADEQUATELY ACKNOWLEDGED PAST
CRIMES, AND CULTIVATED A CODE OF
SILENCE THAT PROVIDED IMMUNITY
FOR PERPETRATORS.
THE VATICAN CALLS THE REPORT
DISTORTED AND UNFAIR, IN THAT IT
IGNORES CORRECTIVE ACTIONS TAKEN
BY THE CHURCH.
HERE TO FLESH OUT THOSE
ARGUMENTS, ARE REVEREND THOMAS
ROSICA, CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER
OF CANADA'S CATHOLIC SALT AND
LIGHT TELEVISION NETWORK AND AN
ENGLISH-LANGUAGE SPOKESPERSON
FOR THE VATICAN.
AND KATHERINE GALLAGHER, A
SENIOR STAFF ATTORNEY AT THE
CENTER FOR CONSTITUTIONAL
RIGHTS.
REVEREND, HOW DOES THIS REPORT
DIFFER FROM WHAT YOU'VE HEARD
BEFORE.
>> FIRST OF ALL, LET ME ADDRESS
THE QUESTION OF SEX ABUSE, AND
THAT THIS REPORT HAS A CENTRAL
MISSION TO ADDRESS THAT.
IT IS CRIMINAL.
IT IS EVIL, AND THE CHURCH IS
DOING EVERYTHING POSSIBLE TO
ADDRESS THE ISSUE.
PARTICULARLY, SINCE 2001, WHEN
ALL OF THIS EXPLODED IN BOSTON
AND OTHER PLACES.
WHAT I FIND DISTURBING ABOUT THE
REPORT, BASICALLY THREE AREAS.
IT'S A GREAT DEAL OF IGNORANCE
THAT THE COMMITTEE REVEALS IN
THE REPORT.
FIRST OF ALL, IGNORANCE OF WHAT
THE CHURCH HAS ALREADY DONE, AND
WHAT THE CHURCH IS DOING.
ESPECIALLY UNDER THE PONTIFICATE
OF POPE BENEDICT, AND NOW UNDER
POPE FRANCIS.
SECONDLY, THERE IS GROSS
MISIGNORANCE-- GROSS IGNORANCE,
I SHOULD SAY, OF THE
UNDERSTANDING OF THE REALITY OF
THE CHURCH.
HOW IS THE CHUCK STRUCTURED?
ONE COULD READ THE REPORT AND
GET THE IMPRESSION THAT THE
CHURCH IS IS THIS HUGE
MONOLITHIC STRUCTURE-- THE
HEADQUARTERS, IF YOU WILL--
DICTATING TO ALL THE BRANCH
OFFICES.
THAT'S NOT THE REALITY OF THE
CHURCH.
A VERY SERIOUS POINT OF THE
REPORT IS ITS ABILITY TO MEDDLE
IN THE INTERNAL LIFE OF THE
CHURCH, IN THE BASIC TENETS OF
OUR FAITH, WHAT SOME WOULD CALL
THE DOCTRINAL ISSUES AND THE
REPORT IS CONTRADICTORY IN A
COUPLE AREAS.
MY FIRST REACTION IN READING
THIS REALLY CALLS INTO QUESTION
THE UNITED NATIONS AND SOME OF
ITS COMMITTEES WHICH REALLY ARE
NOISY GONGS AND CLANGING SYMBOLS
IN MANY REGARDS.
THEY'RE FUELED BY SPECIAL
INTEREST GROUPS, AND BY FOCUSING
ON SO MANY DIFFERENT THINGS
THEY'RE DOING A GREAT INJUSTICE
TO THE VICTIMS OF SEXUAL ABUSE
AND THE EFFORTS THE CHURCH HAS
TAKEN TO ADDRESS THIS CRISIS.
>> Ifill: KATHERINE GALLAGHER,
THAT GIVES YOU A LOT TO CHEW ON.
IS THERE ANYTHING SIGNIFICANT
THAT AN INTERNATIONAL BODY
WEIGHED IN LIKE THIS?
>> WHAT WE SEE TODAY IS QUITE A
HISTORIC DAY.
WE AT C.C.R. REPRESENT OF
SURVIVORS NETWORK OF THOSE
ABUSED BY PRIESTS AND FOR
SURVIVORS WHO HAVE BEEN WORKING
FOR DECADES TO BRING TO GLOBAL
ATTENTION THE SCOPE AND SCALE
AND SEVERITY OF SEXUAL VIOLENCE
AGAINST CHILDREN, ARE V
GRATIFIED BY THE THE N.OF U.N.'S
REPORT TODAY.
IT'S NOTABLE THAT THE U.N. CALLS
OUT, NOT JUST THE PERPETRATORS,
THE INDIVIDUAL PERPETRATORS BUT
HIGH-LEVEL OFFICIALS WHOSE
PRACTICES AND POLICIES HAVE
ENABLED THE CONTINUATION OF
SEXUAL VIOLENCE BY COVERING UP
INSTANCES OF VIOLENCE BY
REQUIRING CONFIDENTIALITY, BY
SHIFTING PRIESTS FROM ONE
JURISDICTION TO ANOTHER WITHOUT
ANY WARNING WHERE THEY A
COMMIT MORE ACTS OF SEXUAL
ASSAULT.
SO WE SEE TODAY'S REPORT RS
WHICH RECOGNIZES THAT THE
CATHOLIC CHURCH, THE VATICAN,
PUTS ITS REPUTATION OVER THE
SAFETY OF CHILDREN AS A VERY,
VERY WELCOME REPORT.
>> Ifill: REVEREND, LET ME
WALK YOU THROUGH A COUPLE OF
THINGS, THE DOCTRINAL ISSUES
THAT THE REPORT BROUGHT UP,
WHICH WERE NOT ABOUT SWUL ABUSE,
THE USE OF THE TERM
"ILLEGITIMATE CHILDREN," THE
DESTIGMATIZATION IT CALLED FOR
OF HOMOSWULLITY.
THE CALL ON THE CHURCH TO
AASSESS THE CHILDREN BORN OF
PRIESTS, CORPORAL PUNISHMENT,
ABORTION.
IS THAT WHAT YOU ARE TALKING
ABOUT WHEN YOU SAY THE U.N. WENT
TOO FAR?
>> THE U.N. WENT OVER THE TOP
AND WENT TOO FAR.
THE PURPOSE OF THIS WAS TO CALL
ATTENTION VERY SPECIFICALLY TO
THE PROTECTION OF CHILDREN, AND
THE EFFORTS THAT HAVE BEEN TAKEN
BY THE CHURCH IN THIS REGARD.
I BELIEVE THAT THE CHURCH HAS
BEEN IN THE VANGUARD OF DEALING
WITH THIS ISSUE, MUCH MORE THAN
OTHER INSTITUTIONS IN SOCIETY
THAT HAVE IGNORED IT.
THAT BEING SAID.
I AGREE WITH KATHERINE
GALLAGHER, WHO IS WITH ME.
THE CHURCH HAS HAD AN EVIL.
IT'S HAD A CRISIS.
IT'S HAD A PLAGUE.
THERE HAVE BEEN ALL OF THOSE
THINGS THAT YOU'VE MENTIONED, OF
COVER-UP, OF MOVING PEOPLE
AROUND, OF DOING ALL KINDS OF
THINGS TO OBFUSCATE THE REALITY,
"AND, YES, WE HAVE BEEN
INTERESTED IN PRESERVING THE
REPUTATION OF THE INSTITUTION,
RATHER THAN THE INDIVIDUAL
VICTIMS.
THAT HAS TAKEN PLACE WITHOUT A
DOUBT.
AND WE ARE GRIEVOUSLY SORRY FOR
THAT AND WE PLEDGE TO MAKE SURE
THAT NEVER HAPPENS AGAIN.
THAT BEING SAID, LET THE REPORT
ACKNOWLEDGE THE INFORMATION THAT
WAS PRESENTED AT THE HEARINGS ON
JANUARY 16 IN GENEVA.
LET THE REPORT AT LEAST
CONDITIONAL THE EFFORTS THAT WE
HAVE TAKEN, WHEREAS MANY OTHERS
IN SOCIETY HAVE DONE NOTHING
ABOUT THIS, SOME OF THE GREATEST
ISSUES OF SEXUAL ABUSE OF
MINORS, THE PEDOPHILIA ISSUES
TAKE PLACE IN FAMILIES.
>> Woodruff: LET ME ASK
KATHERINE GALLAGHER ABOUT THAT
REPORT.
SORRY TO INTERRUPT.
LET ME ASK KATHERINE GALLAGHER
WITH THAT.
HAS THE CHURCH GONE FAR ENOUGH
IN TAKING ACTION?
AND SHORT OF SCOLDING BISHOPS
FOR HAVING PARTICIPATED IN
COVER-UPS?
>> NORTH CAROLINA CLEARLY, THE
CHURCH HAS NOT.
AND I WAS IN GENEVA WHEN THE
COMMITTEE WAS QUESTIONING THE
VATICAN, AND ITS GROWING
FRUSTRATION OVER THE COURSE OF
THAT DAY WHEN IT WAS HEARING
VAGUE WORDS, RATHER THAN CLEAR
ACTIONS THAT THE CATHOLIC CHURCH
HAS TAKEN.
AND WHAT THE COMMITTEE HAS ASKED
FOR IS ACTIONS THAT SHOW
ACCOUNTABILITY.
IT HAS ASKED FOR COOPERATION
WITH LAW ENFORCEMENT AT THE
NATIONAL LEVEL, RATHER THAN
HIDING AWAY PRIEST PRIESTS AND .
IT ASKS FOR DATA TO BE BROUGHT
FORWARD AND TO BE SHARED.
THE VATICAN REFUSED TO DO SO.
I DON'T THINK WE HAVE SEEN AN
INSTITUTION AT THE VANGUARD OF
HOW TO DEAL WITH SEXUAL
VIOLENCE.
RATHER, WEAVER SEEN A
CONTINUATION, AND THE COMMITTEE
MAKES IT CLEAR THERE IS AN
ONGOING PROBLEM, A CONTINUATION
OF THE CODE OF SILENCE.
>> Ifill: REVEREND, IS THERE
ANYTHING--
>> LET ME ASK YOU THE QUESTION.
>> Ifill: GO AHEAD, FINISH.
>> WHAT AUTHORITY DOES SUCH A
COMMITTEE HAVE THAT IS SO NOT
CREDIBLE IN HOW THEY PROCEEDED
WITH THEIR EFFORTS?
DOES IT HAVE ANY JURISDICTION OR
AUTHORITY?
LOOK AT THE VERY CREDIBILITY OF
THE UNITED NATIONS AND OF SUCH
COMMITTEES WHO SEEM TO SET
THEMSELVES UP AS SOME KIND OF A
WATCHDOG OVER AREAS FOR WHICH
THEY DON'T EVEN HAVE THE PROPER
HISTORICAL BACKGROUND.
AND SO I CALL INTO QUESTION, NOT
SERIOUS ISSUE OF SEXUAL ABUSE,
BUT THE METHODOLOGY THAT WAS
USED, AND HOW IT WAS CERTAINLY
FUELED BY SOME SPECIAL INTEREST
GROUPS, WHICH PRODUCED A VERY
DISTORTED REPORT.
THAT'S MY CONCERN.
BECAUSE I BELIEVE THAT THE
UNITED NATIONS, AT ITS BEST,
COULD SERVE AS SOMETHING CALLING
US ALL TO GREATER INTEGRITY, TO
JUSTICE AND TO PEACE.
>> Ifill: MISS GALLAGHER AIR,
FINAL THOUGHT.
>> YES, THANK YOU.
THE HOLY SEE VOLUNTARILY SIGNED
ON AS A PARTY TO THE CONVENTION
ON THE RIGHTS OF THE CHILD.
AND THAT CONVENTION HAS A NUMBER
OF PROVISIONS, INCLUDING PLACING
THE BEST INTERESTS OF THE CHILD
AT THE FOREFRONT.
SO THE VATICAN HAS TAKEN UPON
ITSELF THE OBLIGATIONS TO
PROTECT AND SAFEGUARD CHILDREN,
TO TREAT THEM WITH RESPECT AND
WITH DIGNITY.
AND SO IT WAS VERY MUCH WITHIN
THE COMMITTEE'S PURVIEW TO SAY
THAT WE FIND, VATICAN, THAT YOU
HAVE NOT BEEN DOING WHAT YOU
HAVE PLEDGED TO DO AS A
SIGNATORY TO THIS CONVENTION.
>> Ifill: KATHERINE GALLAGHER
AND REVEREND THOMAS ROSICA,
THANK YOU SO MUCH.
>> Woodruff: AS STATES ACROSS
THE COUNTRY CONTINUE TO GRAPPLE
WITH THE ROLLOUT OF THE
AFFORDABLE CARE ACT, MUCH
ATTENTION HAS BEEN PLACED ON THE
LATINO POPULATION, BECAUSE THEY
REPRESENT MORE THAN A THIRD OF
THE UNINSURED IN THE U.S.
MANY EYES ARE ON CALIFORNIA,
WHERE THERE'S BEEN A BIG
MARKETING EFFORT DIRECTED AT THE
LATINO COMMUNITY.
THE NEWSHOUR'S CAT WISE HAS OUR
STORY.
>> Reporter: ITS A TYPICAL BUSY
DAY AT LA CLINICA DE LA RAZA IN
OAKLAND, CALIFORNIA.
THE FEDERALLY FUNDED COMMUNITY
HEALTH ORGANIZATION SERVES MORE
THAN 85,000, MOSTLY LOW-INCOME
LATINO PATIENTS, EACH YEAR.
>> Reporter: LATINOS REPRESENT
MORE THAN HALF OF CALIFORNIA'S
SEVEN MILLION UNINSURED.
BOTH HERE AND NATIONALLY,
LATINOS ARE CONSIDERED KEY TO
THE OVERALL SUCCESS OF THE
AFFORDABLE CARE ACT BECAUSE THEY
ARE THE LARGEST UNINSURED ETHNIC
GROUP IN THE COUNTRY.
AND THEY TEND TO BE YOUNGER AND
HEALTHIER, WHICH CAN HELP OFF-
SET PREMIUMS FOR OLDER, SICKER
ENROLLEES.
IN THE MONTHS LEADING UP TO THE
OCTOBER LAUNCH OF THE AFFORDABLE
CARE ACT, THERE WAS A BIG PUSH
IN CALIFORNIA TO GET LATINOS
EDUCATED ABOUT THE NEW LAW.
TENS OF MILLIONS OF DOLLARS WERE
SPENT ON ADS TARGETING THE
COMMUNITY AROUND THE STATE.
BUT LA CLINICA C.E.O. JANE
GARCIA SAYS A LOT OF EDUCATIONAL
OUTREACH IS STILL NEEDED.
>> IF YOU LOOK AT, HISTORICALLY,
WHO HAVE BEEN THE UNINSURED, IT
IS THE LATINO COMMUNITY.
SO IT'S NOT A BIG SURPRISE TO US
THAT PEOPLE DON'T UNDERSTAND
WHAT A DEDUCTIBLE IS, OR WHAT A
CO-PAY IS, LET ALONE THE
COMPARISON OF THE HEALTH PLANS
THAT HAS TO HAPPEN.
>> Reporter: LA CLINICA'S STAFF
HAVE PROVIDED PERSONAL
APPLICATION ASSISTANCE TO 900
PATIENTS IN RECENT MONTHS, BUT
ONLY ABOUT 25% HAVE ACTUALLY
ENROLLED IN COVERED CALIFORNIA,
THE STATES INSURANCE EXCHANGE,
OR IN MEDI-CAL, THE STATES
VERSION OF MEDICARE.
STATEWIDE, LATINO ENROLLMENT
NUMBERS ARE ALSO LAGGING.
NEW FIGURES RELEASED BY COVERED
CALIFORNIA SHOW JUST 74,000
ENROLLEES THROUGH DECEMBER
DESCRIBED THEMSELVES AS LATINO.
FAR FEWER THAN THE ESTIMATED 1.2
MILLION WHO ARE ELIGIBLE FOR
PREMIUM SUBSIDIES.
AT A RECENT COVERED CALIFORNIA
BOARD MEETING IN SACRAMENTO, THE
ISSUE WAS FRONT AND CENTER:
>> WITH REGARD TO THE LATINO
ENROLLMENT, THIS IS AN AREA WE
KNOW WE NEED TO DO MORE.
>> Reporter: COVERED CALIFORNIA
EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR PETER LEE
SAYS HE'S PLEASED WITH THE
OVERALL ENROLLMENT NUMBERS IN
THE EXCHANGE SO FAR, MORE THAN
600,000, BUT HE ACKNOWLEDGES
THEY GOT OFF TO A SLOW START
WITH THE LATINO COMMUNITY.
>> LIKE MANY OF THE EXCHANGES
AROUND THE COUNTRY, OUR CUSTOMER
SERVICE HAS NOT BEEN GREAT, BUT
WE'RE DOING A LOT OF THINGS TO
IMPROVE IT.
THIS AFFORDABLE CARE ACT IS
BRAND NEW, THIS IS THE FIRST
OPEN ENROLLMENT IN HISTORY, WERE
LEARNING A LOT AS WE GO TO MAKE
SURE WE GET AS MANY LATINOS
ENROLLED.
>> THE COVERED CALIFORNIA BOARD
DOES NOT HAVE A REPRESENTATIVE
CURRENTLY ON THE BOARD THAT
EITHER IS OF LATINO DESCENT, OR
UNDERSTANDS HOW TO MARKET THIS
POPULATION, AND I THINK THAT HAS
BEEN THE REASON WHY THEY HAVE
FAILED AT REACHING LATINOS.
>> Reporter: STATE SENATOR NORMA
TORRES, WHO REPRESENTS A
PREDOMINANTLY LATINO DISTRICT
NEAR LOS ANGELES, BELIEVES THE
AGENCY'S PROBLEMS GO WAY BEYOND.
SHE SAYS THE CUSTOMER SERVICE
FOR PRIMARILY SPANISH SPEAKING
CALIFORNIANS HAS BEEN, WELL,
AWFUL.
>> WHAT I BELIEVE HAS BEEN A
MAJOR OBSTACLE THAT THIS GROUP
HAS NOT SIGNED UP, IS NUMBER
ONE, THE APPLICATION WAS NOT
MADE AVAILABLE TO THEM IN
SPANISH UNTIL THIS MONTH, WE'RE
TALKING ABOUT JANUARY 2014.
ALSO, THE HOTLINE.
WHEN A SPANISH SPEAKER CALLS,
THE MESSAGE WAS ALSO IN ENGLISH,
AND THAT OFIRST CHANGES THAT THS
A RESULT OF MY OFFICE PUSHING
BACK THAT THEY NEEDED TO IMPROVE
THEIR CUSTOMER EXPERIENCE FOR
SPANISH SPEAKERS.
>> Reporter: SENATOR TORRES AND
CLOSELY
TRACKING THE COVERED CALIFORNIA
WEBSITE AND SAY THERE HAVE BEEN
SPANISH TRANSLATION PROBLEMS
SINCE IT LAUNCHED.
ALEX BARRIOS IS SENATOR TORRES
COMMUNICATIONS DIRECTOR.
>> AS A SPANISH SPEAKER, ONE OF
THE FIRST CHALLENGES I HAVE WHEN
I GO TO THE WEBSITE, IS I GO TO
www.coveredcalifornia.com, WHICH
IS THE WEBSITE THAT THE SPANISH
LANGUAGE ADVERTISEMENT TELLS ME
TO GO TO, I CLICK ON THAT, AND
THE FIRST THING I SEE IS
ENGLISH.
SO THAT'S REALLY HARD FOR ME.
>> Reporter: COVERED CALIFORNIA
OFFICIALS SAY THEY HAVE BEEN
WORKING DILIGENTLY TO GET
TRANSLATION PROBLEMS FIXED, BOTH
ON THE WEBSITE AND PHONE
HOTLINE.
BUT ANOTHER PROBLEM LOOMS LARGE
FOR THOSE ANXIOUS TO SEE MORE
LATINOS ENROLLED.
LA CLINICA'S JANE GARCIA SAYS
MANY PATIENTS ARE RELUCTANT TO
REVEAL INFORMATION ABOUT
UNDOCUMENTED FAMILY MEMBERS
DURING THE ENROLLMENT PROCESS.
ONLY CITIZENS AND LEGAL
RESIDENTS ARE ELIGIBLE FOR
HEALTH COVERAGE.
>> ONE OF THE BIGGEST ISSUES
THAT WE, OUR ENROLLERS, HAVE
FACED IS THE QUESTION OF
IMMIGRATION STATUS.
MANY, MANY OF OUR PATIENTS ARE
IN MIXED IMMIGRATION STATUS
FAMILIES.
I THINK AT THIS POINT WE REALLY
NEED A HIGH VISIBILITY PERSON,
WHETHER IF ITS OUR GOVERNOR,
WHETHER IT'S OUR SENATORS, OR
OUR PRESIDENT, IF HE COULD MAKE
A STATEMENT THAT PEOPLE COULD
STAND ON THAT SAYS THIS WILL NOT
HAVE CONSEQUENCES TO YOUR
IMMIGRATION APPLICATION, I THINK
THAT WOULD GO A LONG WAYS TOWARD
EASING PEOPLES MINDS.
>> Reporter: FOR THEIR PART,
COVERED CALIFORNIA OFFICIALS ARE
TRYING TO REASSURE PEOPLE THE
INFORMATION THEY SHARE WILL NOT
BE USED AGAINST THEM.
>> WE'VE BEEN WORKING TO GET THE
WORD OUT THAT WE HAVE A ROCK
SOLID, YOU KNOW, LETTER FROM THE
HOMELAND SECURITY SAYING
INFORMATION ON IMMIGRATION,
WHICH WE NEED FOR ELIGIBILITY
PURPOSES, WILL ONLY BE USED FOR
ONE PURPOSE, ELIGIBILITY FOR
HEALTH CARE.
>> Reporter: LEE SAYS BOOSTING
THE LATINO ENROLLMENT NUMBERS
OVER THE COMING MONTHS IS A TOP
PRIORITY.
HIRING IS NOW UNDERWAY FOR 350
MOSTLY BILINGUAL CALL CENTER
COUNSELORS.
AND A NEW $155 MILLION DOLLAR
FEDERAL GRANT WILL HELP THE
STATE WITH OVERALL OUTREACH
EFFORTS, INCLUDING NEW ADS
TARGETED AT THE LATINO
COMMUNITY.
>> Ifill: CALIFORNIA OFFICIALS
PLAN TO RELEASE AN ETHNIC
BREAKDOWN OF THE STATES MEDI-CAL
ENROLLMENT FIGURES LATER THIS
MONTH.
WHETHER THE FOCUS IS INCOME
INEQUALITY OR ECONOMIC MOBILITY,
BOTH DEMOCRATS AND REPUBLICANS
HAVE TURNED THEIR ATTENTION MORE
AND MORE TO THE GROWING DIVIDE
BETWEEN THE RICH AND POOR IN
THIS COUNTRY.
TONIGHT, WE BEGIN A SERIES OF
CONVERSATIONS, CALLED "CLOSING
THE GAP", THAT WILL ASK LEADING
MEMBERS OF BOTH PARTIES HOW THEY
PROPOSE TO TACKLE THE PROBLEM.
WE KICK THINGS OFF WITH DEMOCRAT
GEORGE MILLER OF NORTHERN
CALIFORNIA, WHO IS RETIRING FROM
CONGRESS AFTER THIS YEAR, HAVING
SERVED 20 TERMS IN THE HOUSE OF
REPRESENTATIVES.
HE IS CO-AUTHOR OF A BILL TO
RAISE THE FEDERAL MINIMUM WAGE
TO $10.10 CENTS AN HOUR.
CONGRESSMAN MILLER, WELCOME TO
THE "NEWSHOUR."
AND LET ME JUST BEGIN BY ASKING
HOW DO YOU SEE ECONOMIC
OPPORTUNITY IN THE THIS COUNTRY
TODAY?
>> WELL, I THINK ECONOMIC
OPPORTUNITY IS STILL AVAILABLE
TO INDIVIDUALS, AND CERTAINLY,
YOU KNOW, IT'S BEEN DAMPENED
BECAUSE OF THE GREAT RECESSION
CAUSED BY THE FINANCIAL SCANDALS
ON WALL STREET.
BUT THE COUNTRY IS STARTING TO
RECOVER, AND JOBS ARE STARTING
TO BE MADE AVAILABLE.
THEY'RE DIFFERENT JOBS THAN
MAYBE BEFORE THE GREAT
RECESSION.
BUT THEY'RE STARTING TO APPEAR.
THE QUESTION WILL BE WHETHER OR
NOT OUR WORKFORCE AND
INDIVIDUALS ARE IN A POSITION TO
TAKE ADVANTAGE OF THOSE JOBS.
BUT THERE'S ALSO A WHOLE HOST OF
JOBS THAT HAVE BEEN AVAILABLE IN
THIS COUNTRY FOR MANY, MANY
YEARS, BUT THEY DON'T PAY ENOUGH
FOR INDIVIDUALS TO SUPPORT
THEMSELVES OR TO SUPPORT THEIR
FAMILY.
AND THAT'S A REAL PROBLEM IN THE
ECONOMY BECAUSE THEY'RE A TRAG
ON MAIN STREET.
THERE'S JUST SIMPLY NOT ENOUGH
INCOME TO FAMILIES AND
INDIVIDUALS TO MAKE A VIBRANT
ECONOMY GO EVEN BETTER THAN IT
IS NOW.
>> Woodruff: HOW MUCH OF THE
RESPONSIBILITY FOR ADDRESSING
THAT IS ON THE SHOULDERS OF
GOVERNMENT?
>> WELL, GOVERNMENT HAS TO DEAL
WITH THE ISSUES OF MINIMUM WAGE
BECAUSE I THINK IT'S VERY
IMPORTANT TO YOU MAINTAIN A
LIVABLE WAGE, WHICH IS A FLOOR
UNDER WAGES, AND BUSINESS AND
OTHER ENTITIES CAN MAKE
DECISIONS ABOUT THOSE WAGES.
BUT IT'S REALLY INCUMBENT UPON
US, AND IT'S BEEN TRUE
THROUGHOUT THE HISTORY OF THE
COUNTRY, TO DEAL WITH THE
MINIMUM WAGE.
AND RIGHT NOW, THE MINIMUM WAGE
IS LAGGING WAY BEHIND THE COST
OF LIVING, WAY BEHIND THE GROWTH
IN THE ECONOMY.
AND IT REALLY IS BACK TO LESS
THAN WAGES WERE IN 1968,UT THE
PRICES AREN'T 1968.
AND I WOULD WITH SAY IF A
BUSINESS BELIEVES THEY HAVE TO
MAINTAIN A 1968 WAGE, THAT'S
THEIR BUSINESS PLAN, THEY'VE GOT
BIGGER PROBLEMS THAN THE MINIMUM
WAGE.
>> Woodruff: CONGRESSMAN
MILLER, HOW DO YOU ADDRESS,
THOUGH, THE CONTRIBUTION OF THIS
WHO SAY RAISING THE MINIMUM
WAGE-- WHICH WHAT YOU'RE TALKING
ABOUT FROM $7.25 AN HOUR TO
$10.10-- 40% INCREASE ALMOST--
THEIR ARGUMENT IS THAT IT
DOESN'T REALLY GET TO THOSE
PEOPLE IN POVERTY, THAT SO MANY
OF THE PEOPLE WORKING-- EARNING
A MINIMUM WAGE ARE YOUNGER
WORKERS, AND THEY MAY BE THE
SECOND OR THIRD EARNERS IN A
FAMILY-- IN OTHER WORDS, THAT
YOU'RE NOT REALLY ADDRESSING THE
PROBLEM.
>> THOSE CRITICISMS ARE
CRITICISMS THAT ALMOST-- THEY'RE
VERY OUT OF DATE.
THEY'RE CRITICISMS THAT WERE
LAUNCHED 20 YEARS AGO.
MOST OF ALL OF THE NEW ECONOMIC
STUDIES SHOW US THAT IN COMPETE,
COUNTIES OR CITIES WHERE THE
MINIMUM WAGE IS HIGHER IN ONE
STATE AND LOWER IN THE OTHER,
WHERE THEY JOIN ONE ANOTHER,
SMALL BUSINESSES ARE HIRING MORE
PEOPLE IN THE AREA THAT HAS THE
HIGHER MINIMUM WAGE.
THERE'S MORE ECONOMIC ACTIVITY
ON THE MAIN STREET OF WHERE
THERE'S A HIGHER MINIMUM WAGE.
THE FACT IS, MORE THAN HALF OF
ALL OF THE MINIMUM WAGE WORKERS
ARE OVER 20 YEARS OF AGE.
MANY OF THEM ARE PROVIDING A
MAJOR COMPONENT OF THAT FAMILY
INTHK, WHETHER IT'S A MOTHER AND
A CHILD OR HUSBAND AND WIFE AND
A CHILD.
THAT MINIMUM WAGE WORKER IS VERY
IMPORTANT TO THAT FAMILY.
AND WE KNOW THAT THAT MINIMUM
WAGE CIRCULATES THROUGH THE
ECONOMY VERY RAPIDLY BECAUSE
THESE ARE PEOPLE WHO MUST SPEND
THAT MONEY TO PAY THEIR BILLS,
TO MAKE THE CAR PAYMENT, TO PUT
GAS IN THE CAR, TO TAKE CARE OF
HEALTH CARE.
THAT MONEY GOES INTO THE ECONOMY
RIGHT AWAY, AND THE ESTIMATE IS
THAT TODAY ABOUT 85,000 JOBS
WOULD BE CREATED IF THE FEDERAL
GOVERNMENT TOOK THIS STAND TO
RAISE THE MINIMUM WAGE.
WE WOULD GET TO 10.10 OVER THREE
YEARS.
SO IT'S NOT GOING TO HAPPEN
OVERNIGHT, BUT OVER THREE YEARS.
IT'S A VERY IMPORTANT PART OF
THE COMPLETING THE ECONOMIC
PACKAGE TO GROW THE ECONOMY.
THAT'S WHY GOVERNORS AND MAYORS
ARE DOING THIS BECAUSE THEY KNOW
THEY CAN'T HAVE A VIBRANT STATE
AIR, VIBRANT CITY ON THE BACKS
OF LOW-INCOME WORKERS THAT CAN'T
PROVIDE FOR THEMSELVES BECAUSE
OF THE LOW WAGE.
>> Woodruff: AND ONE OTHER
QUESTION ABOUT THAT, ONE OTHER
ARGUMENT ONE HEARS, EMPLOYERS
WHEN THEY ARE REQUIRED TO PAY
MORE MONEY TO INDIVIDUAL WORKERS
ARE JUST NOT GOING TO HIGHER AS
MANY PEOPLE.
AND THAT ESPECIALLY WHEN THE
ECONOMY IS IN A FRAGILE STATE,
AS MANY PEOPLE BELIEVE IT IS
RIGHT NOW.
>> THE EVIDENCE REALLY DOESN'T
HOLD UP ANYMORE.
THAT WAS TRUE-- WHICH I FIRST
CAME TO CONGRESS THERE WAS A LOT
OF EVIDENCE SUGGESTING THAT'S
TRUE.
YOU LOOK AT AN EMPLOYER LIKE
COSTCO, THEY SEE GREATER SAVINGS
IN A HIGHER MINIMUM WAGE BECAUSE
OF THE RETENTION OF THEIR
QUALITY WORKERS AND NOT GETTINGS
THAT HAPPENS AT THE LOW-WAGE
AREA.
AND THAT'S WHY THEY SUPPORT THE
INCREASE IN THE MINIMUM WAGE.
SO I THINK THE EVIDENCE IT
CLEARLY TURNING, AND THE SUPPORT
PIE THE AMERICAN PUBLIC ACROSS
ALL REGIONS, ACROSS ALL
POLITICAL PARTIES IS
OVERWHELMING.
THEY KNOW BECAUSE OF THE
EXPERIENCE OF AMERICAN FAMILIES
TODAY WHERE THEY HAVE A MEMBER
WORKING AT THE MINIMUM WAGE,
PEOPLE WITH HIGH SCHOOL-- I
MEAN, WITH COLLEGE DEGREES.
SO THE EMPSHE 3 IS MUCH
DIFFERENT IT WAS A YEAR AGO.
PEOPLE ARE ASKING THEMSELVES WHO
ARE MAKING $15, $20, $30 AN
HOUR, HOW CAN ANYONE LIVE ON
$7.25 AN HOUR IN THAT'S A
COMPELLING REASON AND THAT'S WHY
THE CONGRESS IS GOING TO PASS
THE MINIMUM WAGE INCREASE.
>> Woodruff: WE KNOW, HAVING
HEARD THESE ARGUMENTS, THE
POLITICAL REALITY CONTINUES TO
BE TOUGH FOR THE MINIMUM WAGE
BECAUSE SO MANY REPUBLICANS
REMAIN OPPOSED TO IT.
BUT JUST SETTING THAT ASIDE FOR
A MNTE DO YOU THINK
NEEDS TO BE DONE TO ADDRESS
INCOME INEQUALITY IN THIS
COUNTRY?
AND WHERE DO YOU SEE THE TWO
PARTIES BEING ABLE TO COME
TOGETHER TO DO SOMETHING ABOUT
THIS?
>> I THINK THE TWO PARTIES MAY
COOG INTENSIVE
JOB TRAINING, RECOGNIZING THAT
THE JOBS THAT PEOPLE WILL BE
SEEKING OR OF ARE DIFFERENT FROM
THE JOBS THAT THEY REST.
FIVE MILLION PEOPLE SHOWED UP AT
COMMUNITY COLLEGES SEEKING
ADDITIONAL SKILLS, AND TRAINING
BECAUSE THEY LOST THEIR JOBS.
WE WEREN'T PREPARED FOR THAT.
BUT I THINK THERE'S SOME
INTERESTING NEGOTIATIONS GOING
ON RIGHT NOW AROUND FEDERAL JOB
TRAINING, AN EXEKS OF THE
CURRENT PROGRAMS, A RENEWAL OF
THOSE PROGRAMS.
I THINK CLEARLY YOU HAVE TO LOOK
AT THE EDUCATION SYSTEM.
WE CANNOT CONTINUE TO SEND
PEOPLE INTO THE JOB MARKET WHO
ARE UNPREPARED IN THE BASIC
FUNDAMENTAL TENETS OF EDUCATION
IN TERMS OF LITERACY AND MATH
AND SCIENCE.
IT JUST-- WE CAN NO LONGER
AFFORD IT AS A NATION, AND WE
DON'T HAVE TO AFFORD IT ANY
LONGER AS A NATION, AS YOU WOMAN
KNOW.
>> Woodruff: JUST VERY QUICKLY
AT THE END.
WHAT HAPPENS WHEN YOU SIT DOWN
ACROSS THE TABLE FROM A
REPUBLICAN FRIEND OF YOURS WITH
DIFFERENT VIEWS?
ARE YOU ABLE TO HAVE A
CONVERSATION ABOUT THIS?
>> IT'S VERY INTERESTING.
I THINK THIS IS STARTING TO TURN
IN THE CONGRESS.
THESE DISCUSSIONS ARE GOING ON
AROUND THE WORK INCENTIVE ACT
AND JOB TRAINING.
MY REPUBLICAN COLLEAGUES, SOME
OF THEM KNOW EVENTUALLY THEY'RE
GOING TO NEED AND WANT A VOTE ON
THE MINIMUM WAGE.
AND I THINK EVEN IN EARLY
CHILDHOOD LEARNING WE HAVE A
BIPARTISAN BILL.
WE HAVE A NUMBER OF REPUBLICANS
ON THAT.
WE HAVE OTHER REPUBLICANS WHO
HAVE TOLD US THEY'RE NOT QUITE
YET READY TO SIGN ON THE LINE
BUT THEY'RE IN FAVOR OF THE
LEGISLATION THAT SENATOR AND
HARKIN AND I HAVE INTRODUCED ON
BEHALF OF THE ADMINISTRATION'S
EARLY LEARNING OPPORTUNITY.
SOME OF THIS IS STARTING TO TURN
BECAUSE THEY CAN'T JUSTIFY THEIR
POSITIONS, AND CERTAINLY THE
AMERICAN PUBLIC SUPPORTS EARLY
LEARNING AS A KEYSTONE TO A
SUCCESSFUL EDUCATION AND
PARTICIPATION IN THE WORKFORCE
OVEL A BIPARTISAN
BASIS.
THEY SUPPORT THE MINIMUM WAGE
OVERWHELM ON A BIPARTISAN BASIS.
AND THEY SUPPORT IDEA WE WOULD
HELP PEOPLE RETRAIN FOR NEW JOBS
OR HOLD THE JOB THAT THEY HAVE
THAT REQUIRES NEW SKILLS.
THEY OVERWHELMINGLY SUPPORT
THOSE.
YOU CAN PICK A FIGHT IN THAT
ARENA IF YOU WANT, BUT THE
PUBLIC IS NOT WITH YOU IF YOU'RE
NOT FOR THE GOVERNMENT BEING
PROACTIVE IN THESE THREE KEY
AREAS.
>> Woodruff: CONGRESSMAN
GEORGE MILLER.
WE HEAR YOU, TALKING ABOUT
CLOSING THE GAP, THANK YOU.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Woodruff: NEXT WEEK WE WILL
TALK WITH FLORIDA REPUBLICAN
SENATOR MARCO RUBIO WHO RECENTLY
OUTLINED HIS OWN ANTIPOVERTY
AGENDA.
>> Ifill: THE MILITARY HAS
INCREASINGLY BEEN WRACKED BY
SCANDAL, AS THREE OF ITS FIVE
BRANCHES FACE ALLEGATIONS OF
CHEATING AND FRAUD.
JUST AS THE UTMILITARY IS
WINDING DOWN 10 YEARS OF
HIGH-TEMPO OPERATIONS, THREE OF
ITS SERVICES ARE RAMPING UP
INVESTIGATIONS INTO SOME OF THE
MOST SERIOUS SCANDALS IN A
GENERATION.
THE LATEST INVOLVES CHARGES THAT
NAVY TRAINERS CHEATED ON
CERTIFICATION EXAMS TO TEACH AT
A NUCLEAR REACTOR SCHOOL IN
CHARLESTON, SOUTH CAROLINA.
>> TO SAY THAT I'M DISAPPOINTED
WOULD BE AN UNDERSTATEMENT.
>> Ifill: THE CHIEF OF NAVAL
OPERATIONS, ADMIRAL JONATHAN
GREENERT, SPOKE AT A PENTAGON
BRIEFING YESTERDAY.
WE NEED TO AND WE WILL REMAIN
VIGILANT.
WE WILL CONTINUE TO DRIVE HOME
TO OUR PEOPLE THE IMPORTANCE OF
INTEGRITY: THE FACT THAT IT IS
THE FOUNDATION OF ALL THAT WE DO
IN THE U.S. NAVY.
THE AIR FORCE, MEANWHILE, IS
CONDUCTING ITS OWN INVESTIGATION
IN THE NUCLEAR RANKS, ONE THAT
GREW OUT OF A DRUG PROBE.
IT'S ALLEGED THAT NEARLY 100
MISSILE OFFICERS CHEATED ON
PROFICIENCY TESTS AT A BASE IN
MONTANA.
THE PENTAGON'S TOP SPOKESMAN
SAID SECRETARY OF DEFENSE CHUCK
HAGEL SEES A TROUBLED ROAD
AHEAD.
>> I THINK HE DEFINITELY SEES
THIS AS A GROWING PROBLEM.
AND HE'S CONCERNED ABOUT THE
DEPTH.
AND I DON'T THINK HE COULD STAND
HERE AND TELL YOU THAT HE HAS,
THAT ANYBODY HAS, THE FULL GRASP
HERE AND THAT'S WHAT WORRIES THE
SECRETARY.
>> Ifill: AND A THIRD SCANDAL,
INVOLVING ARMY NATIONAL GUARD
RECRUITING, IS AMONG THE LARGEST
IN THE SERVICE'S HISTORY.
NIRE
THAT AWARDEDFOR SIGNING UP NEW
RECRUITS.
THOUSANDS OF PERSONNEL ARE UNDER
INVESTIGATION.
THE FRAUD IS BEING COUNTED IN
THE TENS OF MILLIONS OF DOLLARS.
AT A HEARING YESTERDAY, MISSOURI
SENATOR CLAIRE MCCASKILL, SAID
THE MISCONDUCT WENT BEYOND THOSE
IN UNIFORM.
>> BECAUSE ANYONE COULD SIGN UP
TO BE A RECRUITING ASSISTANT,
THERE ARE ALSO CASES OF PEOPLE
UNAFFILIATED WITH THE ARMY
STEALING NAMES AND SOCIAL
SECURITY NUMBERS OF POTENTIAL
RECRUITS, AND RECEIVING REFERRAL
PAYMENTS THAT THEY WERE NOT
ENTITLED TO.
>> Ifill: AND IT DOESN'T END
THERE.
"THE WASHINGTON POST", USING
FREEDOM OF INFORMATION ACT
DISCLOSURES, HAS REPORTED ON
GENERAL OFFICERS AND ADMIRALS
WHOSE BEHAVIOR WAS UNETHICAL,
CRUEL, INAPPROPRIATELY SEXUAL
OR, IN MANY CASES, ILLEGAL UNDER
MILITARY LAW.
>> Ifill: SO HOW SERIOUS ARE ALL
THESE INCIDENTS?
FOR THAT WE TURN TO CRAIG
WHITLOCK WHO COVER'S THE DEFENSE
DEPARTMENT FOR THE WASHINGTON
POST.
WHERE TO BEGIN?
LET'S START WITH THE NAVY.
HOW SERIOUS ARE THE CHARGES IN
CHARLESTON?
>> WELL, THEY ARE SERIOUS.
WE DON'T KNOW THE EXTENT OF IT.
YESTERDAY THE CHIEF OF NAVAL
OPERATIONS AND ANOTHER ADMIRAL
CAME OUT AND SAID, "WE JUST
FOUND OUT ABOUT THIS."
ONE SAILOR TIPPED US OFF THAT
ANSWERS WERE BEING CIRCULATED
AMONG PEOPLE WHO WERE OPERATING
NUCLEAR REACTORS, BUT THEY DON'T
KNOW THE EXTENT IT.
WE KNOW THERE ARE 30 PEOPLE
UNDER INVESTIGATION.
AS WE SAW WITH THE AIR FORCE,
THAT TEND TO SPREAD PRETTY
QUICKLY.
>> Ifill: THERE WAS ANOTHER
CASE INVOLVING THE NAVY,
INVOLVING SILENCERS, CONTRACTING
SCHEMES?
>> THAT'S RIGHT.
A VERY BIZARRE CASE WHERE SENIOR
INTELLIGENCE OFFICIALS IN THE
NAVY BOUGHT A WHOLE BUNCH OF
SILENTERS, UPMARKED ONE FOR A
FEW MILLION DOLLARS, THAT ONLY
COST A FEW THOUSANDS DOLLARS TO
PRODUCE.
THIS IS ANOTHER STRANGE CASE THE
NAVY IS STRUGGLING TO GET TO THE
BOTTOM OF.
>> Ifill: THE RECRUITING
SCANDAL, THE RECRUITING
INVESTIGATION INVOLVING THE
ARMY, HOW MUCH MONEY ARE WE TALK
PENTAGON?
>> MILLIONS OF DOLLARS, AND THIS
IS SOMETHING THAT HAD ITS
BEGINNING AT THE HEIGHT OF THE
IRAQ WAR, WHEN THE ARMY WAS
HAVING TROUBLE RECRUITING
PEOPLE.
AND ESSENTIALLY THEY OFFERED
BONUSES FOR REFEFERLS, BUT THEY
DIDN'T CHECK UP ON PEOPLE WHO
WERE CLAIMING THEM WITHIN THE
ARMY.
AND, AGAIN, THEY'VE HAD A
DIFFICULT TIME GIVING EXTENT OF
IT, BUT IT'S A LOT OF MONEY,
MILLIONS AND MILLIONS OF
DOLLARS.
>> Ifill: AND HOW MANY PEOPLE
ARE INVOLVED AND WHO'S INVOLVED
IN THAT?
>> HUNDREDS OF PEOPLE IN THE
ARMY AND INCLUDING UP THE CHAIN
OF COMMAND, UP TO A TWO-STAR
GENERAL.
>> Ifill: AND MAYBE RECRUITERS
AS WELL, REGULAR HIGH SCHOOL
RECRUITERS, MAYBE?
>> IT COULD BE.
I THINK ALSO A LOT OF PEOPLE IN
THE ARMY WHO JUST HAD REGULAR
JOBS WHO WERE REFERRING PEOPLE
THEY SAID WOULD BE GOOD
CANDIDATES.
>> Ifill: AND WHAT IS THE
STATUS OF THE ONGOING
INVESTIGATION IN THE AIR FORCE,
INVOLVING THE FOLKS WHO HAD
THEIR HANDS ON THE BUTTON AT
MALSTROM AIR FORCE BASE?
>> SO FAR, ABOUT 100 PEOPLE HAVE
BEEN IMPLICATED IN THAT
INVESTIGATION.
OFFICERS, WHO AS YOU PUT IT,
MISSILE SILOS FOR CHEATING BUT
WHAT WE KNOW LESS ABOUT IS DRUG
USE ALLEGATIONS.
THE AIR FORCE IS INVESTIGATING A
DRUG ABUSE RING.
THAT'S HOW THEY FOUND OUT ABOUT
THE CHEATING TO BEGIN WITH.
THEY'VE BEEN PRETTY TIGHT LIPPED
ABOUT HOW MANY ARE INVOLVED.
CHEATING IS ONE THING, BUT DRUG
USE AMONG PEOPLE WITH THEIR
FINGZERRERS ON THE BUTTON IS
ALARMING.
>> Ifill: HAVEN'T BRANCHES OF
THE MILITARY INVESTIGATED
THEMSELVES BEFORE, INCLUDING THE
RECRUITING SCANDAL.
THIS IS NOT THE FIRST TIME WE'VE
HEARD OF THAT.
>> IT'S NOT THE FIRST TIME.
THEY DON'T LIKE TO AIR THEIR
DIRTY LAWPPEDRY, AND WITH THE
RECRUITING SCANDAL THIS IS
SOMETHING HIGHLIGHTED IN THE
CONGRESS?
THE SENATE.
SENATOR CLAIRE McCASKILL HAD A
HEARING ON IT THE OTHER DAY.
THESE ARE NOT THINGS MANY
BRANCHES OF THE MILITARY LIKE TO
EXPOSE.
THEY TEND TO COME OUT DRIP,
DRIM, DRIP, SOMETIMES WITH
REPORTERS, SOMETIMES WITH
CONGRESS, AND IT TAKES A WHILE
TO FIGURE OUT THE SCOPE OF THEM.
>> Ifill: THAT'S WHAT FREEDOM
OF INFORMATION ACTS ARE ALL
ABOUT.
IS THIS SOMETHING THE TOP BRASS
OR THE CIVILIAN BRASS IS ERODING
PUBLIC CONFIDENCE IN THE
MILITARY?
>> IT IS, AND IT WAS PRETTY
STRIKING TODAY TO HEAR THE
PENTAGON SECRETARY COME OUT AND
SAY DEFENSE SECRETARY CHUCK
HAGEL IS WORRIED ABOUT THE MORAL
CHARACTER OF THE FORCE.
THOSE ARE VERY POWERFUL FORCE
BUT ESPECIALLY IN THE MILITARY
WHERE HONOR AND INTEGRITY ARE
REALLY THE CORE OF WHEN THEY DO.
THE PUBLIC HOLDS THESE
COMMANDERS AND ENLISTED PEOPLE
IN VERY HIGH ESTEEM FOR WHAT
THEY DO.
WHEN THE TOP MAN IN THE PENTAGON
SAYS HE'S CONCERNED ABOUT THE
MORAL COURAGE, MORAL CHARACTER
OF THE FORCE, AND HOW BIG OF A
PROBLEM IT IS, THAT'S PRETTY
SOORS.
>> Ifill: IS THIS SOMETHING
WHICH MULTIPLE DEPLOYMENTS CAN
EXACERBATE?
>> WELL, IT COULD.
AND THAT'S SOMETHING THAT THE
PENTAGON HAS ADMITTED IT'S
ASKING ITSELF.
GENERAL MARTIN DEMP SEE, THE
CHAIRMAN OF THE JOINT CHIEFS OF
STAFF, HAS WONDERED IF THE
STRAIN OF WAR HAS HAD AN EFFECT
ON THINGS AND WHETHER THE
MILITARY DURING WAR TIME MAYBE
TURNED A BIT OF A BLIND EYE
TOWARDS CHARACTER ISSUES THAT IT
WAS SO FOCUSED ON WHETHER
COMMANDERS HAD TACTICAL ABILITY,
WERE GOOD AT WAR FIGHTING, BUT
MAYBE THEY WEREN'T PAYING AS
MUCH ATTENTION TO THEIR ETHICAL
FLAWS.
>> Ifill: IT SOUNDS LIKE THE
PENTAGON IS MOVING AWAY FROM THE
NOTION OF THESE WERE ALL JUST
ONE-OFFS AND MORE TOWARD THE
NOTION THAT MAYBE THERE'S
SOMETHING SYSTEMIC GOING ON?
>> WELL, THAT'S RIGHT.
THEY ARE QUESTIONING THAT.
THEY DON'T KNOW THE ANSWER.
BUT CLEARLY IT ISN'T JUST
ONE-OFFS.
WE'RE SEEING A PATTERN AGAIN AND
AGAIN AND AGAIN.
A LOT OF IT IS PERSONAL
MISCONDUCT, INTEGRITY ISSUES,
GAMBLING, DRINKING, SLEEPING
AROUND AND AMONG, AGAIN, THE TOP
BRASS WITH THIS.
PEOPLE, THEIR HUMAN FRAILTIES.
THERE ARE ALWAYS GOING TO BE
PEOPLE ON WHO ENGAGE IN THIS
KIND OF CONDUCT, BUT IT'S RARE
TO HEAR SO MANY OF THESE CASES
INVOLVING HIGH-RANKS COMMANDERS.
>> Ifill: IT'S RARE AND IT'S
DISTURBING.
CRAIG WHITLOCK OF THE
"WASHINGTON POST," THANK YOU.
>> THANKS FOR HAVING ME.
>> Woodruff: FINALLY TONIGHT, A
LOOK AT FAMILY, LOVE AND GROWING
OLD, ALL WITH A MUSICAL BEAT.
JEFFREY BROWN HAS OUR BOOK
CONVERSATION
>> Brown: IT'S BEEN ALMOST 30
YEARS SINCE WE WERE FIRST
INTRODUCED TO MUSIC
FANEWSCASTIST JIMMY RABBIT IN
"THE COMMITMENTS.
HE WAS THE MANAGER OF A RAGTAG
IRISH BAND DETERMINED TO BRING
SOUL MUSIC TO DUBLIN.
THE BOOK WAS MADE INTO A POPULAR
MOVIE IN 1991.
FLASH FORWARD TO TODAY AS WE
LEARNED IN THE NEW NOVEL "THE
GUTS" IN WHICH RABBIT IS FACING
MIDDLE AGE, CHANGING TIMES IN
THE MUSIC WORLD, AND HIS OWN
MORTALITY.
AUTHOR AND BOOKER PRIZE WINNER
RODDY DOYLE JOINS US NOW.
WELCOME TO YOU.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Brown: THE FIRST THING I
SHOULD ASK SITION WHAT MADE YOU
WANT TO REVISIT THESE
CHARACTERS?
I THINK THEY WERE POPULAR FOR A
LOT OF PEOPLE BUT THEY CALLED
YOU.
>> I FIND IT TEMPTING TO GO BACK
TO CHARACTERS.
I NEVER KILLED ANY OF THEM.
IT WAS MORE THAN A QUARTER OF A
CENTURY SINCE I FINISHED WITH
JIMMY RABBIT.
AND I WROTE ABOUT HIM IN A TIME.
RECESSION, WHICH AT THE TIME WE
THOUGHT WERE NORMAL LIFE IN
IRELAND.
HAVING CLIMBED OUT OF THAT AND
SPECTACULARLY FALLEN BACK INTO
IT, I THOUGHT IT WOULD BE
INTERESTING TO GO BACK TO OLD
CHARACTERS AND SEE HOW THEY ARE
RESPONDING TO IT.
>> Brown: YOU ARE INTERESTED
IN LOOKING AT SOCIETAL CHANGES
THROUGH THESE CHARACTERS?
>> I'M NOT SURE I'M INTERESTED
IN IT PER SE, BUT IF YOU'RE
GOING TO WRITE ABOUT CHARACTERS
IN THE PRESENT DAY YOU HAVE TO
BE REALLY.
YOU HAVE TO ACCEPT EVEN THOUGH
HE'S HAVING AN OLD-FASHIONED
CONVERSATION AT THE BEGINNING OF
THE BOOK BETWEEN HIMSELF AND HIS
FATHER, THEY BOTH HAVE CELL
PHONES.
>> Brown: GLOU IT STARTS WITH
HIS FATHER ASKING ABOUT THIS
THING, FACEBOOK.
>> FACEBOOK, ASKING ABOUT
FACEBOOK, AND JIMMY PREBDZS HE
DOESN'T KNOW ABOUT FACEBOOK BUT
HE DOES BECAUSE HE'S INVOLVED IN
ONLINE MUSIC SALES AND HE HAS
TO.
I KNEW NOTHING ABOUT FACEBOOK,
EITHER, BUT I HAD TO FIND OUT A
BIT ABOUT IT.
IN A WAY IT FORCES ME O OUT OF E
ATTIC WHERE I WORK, MY OFFICE.
IF HE HAS A FAMILY AND THERE ARE
TEENAGERS IN THE FAMILY, HOW DO
THEY COMMUNICATE?
HE BEES OR HE WANTS TO KNOW.
ONCE YOU DECIDE TO WRITE
SOMETHING IN THE PRESENT DAY,
LITTLE MOMENTS, YOU KNOW, LITTLE
MOMENTS CREEP INTO IT.
>> Brown: OF COURSE THE OTHER
ING THAT'S HAPPENED IN THE
TIME, WE'RE OLDER, RIGHT.
>> OH, YEAH.
>> Brown: JIMMY RABBIT IS IN
MIDDLE AGE, SO ALL THESE THINGS,
FINANCIAL SECURITY, INSECURITY,
WHAT HAS HE DONE WITH HIS LIFE,
AND HE LEARNS HE HAS CANCER.
>> SOME YEARS AGO CANCER WAS
ADDED TO THE LIST OF THINGS I
TALK ABOUT WITH MY FRIENDS WHEN
WE MEET FOR A PINT ON THURSDAY
NIGHT.
USED TO BE FOOTBALL-- SOCCER,
THAT IS-- AND MUSIC AND OUR
CHILDREN.
AND THEN THERE WERE FIVE OF US
AND THEN THERE WERE FOUR OF US
BECAUSE ONE US DIED, AND CANCER
VERY MUCH BECAME ONE OF THE
TOPICS.
AND WE KNEW OTHER PEOPLE WHO HAD
CANCER.
AND, YOU KNOW, YOU'RE WORRIED.
AND THEN YOU FIND OUT-- I
REMEMBER HAVING A MEDICAL AND I
WAS TOLD THE GOOD NEWS IS YOU'RE
TOO OLD FOR TESTICULAR CANCER.
AND I WAS DYING TO GET OUT SO I
TEXT MY PALS "YOU WON'T
BELIEVE WHAT THE GREAT NEWS IS."
ON THE OTHER HAND, THERE ARE
ANOTHER COUPLE WAITING FOR YOU.
>> Brown: YOU'RE LAUGHING AS
YOU TELL THIS, AND THIS IS WHAT
SO STRIKES ME WHEN I'M READING
THIS BOOK IS IT'S ABOUT-- IN
PART IS ABOUT A GUY WHO GETS
CANCER AND HAS IT DEAL WITH IT.
IT'S HISTORICALLY FUNNY.
>> I WOULD HOPE SO.
>> Brown: YOU WOULD HOPE SO,
BECAUSE?
>> IT'S ONE WAY OF CONFRONTING.
WHEN YOU LAUGH AT THINGS, YOU'RE
NOT EVADING THEM.
I FEEL THAT YOU'RE CONFRONTING
THEM.
YOU'RE RUNNING HEAD LONG INTO
EVEN THESE DAYS WITH TEXTING,
THEM.
SOMETHING AWFUL HAPPENS, AND THE
EVEN THESE DAYS WITH TEXTING,
FIRST THING THAT, ARRIVES BY
SOMETHING AWFUL HAPPENS, AND THE
TEXT IS A JOKE.
FIRST THING THAT, ARRIVES BY
IT COULD BE PERCEIVED AS CRUEL
TEXT IS A JOKE.
BUT IT IS A WAY OF COPING.
IT COULD BE PERCEIVED AS CRUEL
THE BOOK, I HOPE IT'S NOT
BUT IT IS A WAY OF COPING.
TASTELESS, YOU BE.
THE BOOK, I HOPE IT'S NOT
I WAS TRYING TO THINK IF I WAS
TASTELESS, YOU BE.
IN THIS POSITION, WHAT WOULD I
I WAS TRYING TO THINK IF I WAS
DO?
IN THIS POSITION, WHAT WOULD I
WHAT WOULD I DO?
DO?
HOW WOULD I ADDRESS THE FACT TO
WHAT WOULD I DO?
MY CHILDREN?
HOW WOULD I ADDRESS THE FACT TO
LAUGHTER, IT CERTAINLY WAS THE
MY CHILDREN?
CASE WHEN I GREW UP, AND IT
LAUGHTER, IT CERTAINLY WAS THE
STILL IS IN OUR HOUSE.
CASE WHEN I GREW UP, AND IT
MY FATHER IS 90 AND HE STILL
STILL IS IN OUR HOUSE.
MAKES ME LAUGH.
MY FATHER IS 90 AND HE STILL
IT'S PART OF WHAT I GREW UP
MAKES ME LAUGH.
WITH, REALLY.
IT'S PART OF WHAT I GREW UP
>> Brown: TWO GREAT THEMES
WITH, REALLY.
THEY SEE THROUGH MANY OF YOUR
>> Brown: TWO GREAT THEMES
BOOKS OVER TIME, STARTING WITH
THEY SEE THROUGH MANY OF YOUR
THE TRILOGY, WITH THE
BOOKS OVER TIME, STARTING WITH
COMMITMENTS.
THE TRILOGY, WITH THE
WORKING CLASS DUBLIN AND MUSIC.
COMMITMENTS.
>> YES.
WORKING CLASS DUBLIN AND MUSIC.
>> Brown: WHY?
>> YES.
>> WELL,Y GREW UP IN ONE AND
>> Brown: WHY?
LISTENED TO THE OTHER.
>> WELL,Y GREW UP IN ONE AND
IT'S AS SIMPLE AS THAT.
LISTENED TO THE OTHER.
>> Brown: IT'S AS SIMPLE AS
IT'S AS SIMPLE AS THAT.
THAT.
>> Brown: IT'S AS SIMPLE AS
>> YEAH, YEAH.
THAT.
I SUPPOSE I GREW UP-- IN MANY
>> YEAH, YEAH.
WAYS AS A WRITER I'M BLESSED--
I SUPPOSE I GREW UP-- IN MANY
EVEN GROWING OLDER IS A GREAT
WAYS AS A WRITER I'M BLESSED--
THING IF YOU'RE A WRITER AND YOU
EVEN GROWING OLDER IS A GREAT
CAN USE THIS MATERIAL.
THING IF YOU'RE A WRITER AND YOU
IT'S A VERY HEALTHY WAY THE
CAN USE THIS MATERIAL.
HUMILIATION--
IT'S A VERY HEALTHY WAY THE
>> Brown: YOU'RE FEELING OKAY
HUMILIATION--
ABOUT IT.
>> Brown: YOU'RE FEELING OKAY
>> I TAKE NOTES.
ABOUT IT.
IT'S THE SAME WHEN I WAS A VERY
>> I TAKE NOTES.
SMALL CHILD.
IT'S THE SAME WHEN I WAS A VERY
I WAS LIVING IN WHAT SEEMED A
SMALL CHILD.
RURAL AREA OF DUBLIN,
I WAS LIVING IN WHAT SEEMED A
EDGE OF THE CITY, AND AS I GOT
RURAL AREA OF DUBLIN,
OLDER INTO MY TEENS, THE FIELDS
EDGE OF THE CITY, AND AS I GOT
THAT SURROUNDED OUR HOUSE WERE
OLDER INTO MY TEENS, THE FIELDS
DUG UP AND BECAME WORKING CLASS
THAT SURROUNDED OUR HOUSE WERE
HOUSING ESTATES.
DUG UP AND BECAME WORKING CLASS
TO SAY I KNEW THE AREA WOULD BE
HOUSING ESTATES.
AN UNDERSTATEMENT.
TO SAY I KNEW THE AREA WOULD BE
I KNEW THE LAYERS UNDER IT.
AN UNDERSTATEMENT.
MUSIC, I'M ONE OF THE BILLIONS
I KNEW THE LAYERS UNDER IT.
OF PEOPLE ON THE PLANET WHO
MUSIC, I'M ONE OF THE BILLIONS
LOVES MUSIC.
OF PEOPLE ON THE PLANET WHO
THERE'S NOTHING DEEP OPENER DARK
LOVES MUSIC.
TO SAY.
THERE'S NOTHING DEEP OPENER DARK
THAT.
TO SAY.
>> Brown: BUT IT STAYED WITH
THAT.
YOU.
>> Brown: BUT IT STAYED WITH
>> DI.
YOU.
I RECENTLY TOOK THE RECORDS, THE
>> DI.
VINYL DOWN FROM THE ATTIC AND
I RECENTLY TOOK THE RECORDS, THE
REINSTATED THE FRONT ROOM, THE
VINYL DOWN FROM THE ATTIC AND
HOME OF VINYL.
REINSTATED THE FRONT ROOM, THE
>> Brown: JUST LIKE JIMMY
HOME OF VINYL.
RABBIT.
>> Brown: JUST LIKE JIMMY
>> AND MY KIDS HAVE ENTERED THE
RABBIT.
SPIRIT.
>> AND MY KIDS HAVE ENTERED THE
>> Brown: THE NEW NOVEL IS
SPIRIT.
"THE GUTS,."
>> Brown: THE NEW NOVEL IS
RODDY DOYLE, THANK YOU.
>> Ifill: WE HAVE MORE FROM
RODDY DOYLE, HE READS AN EXCERPT
FROM HIS NEW NOVEL ON ART BEAT.
>> Woodruff: AGAIN, THE MAJOR
DEVELOPMENTS OF THE DAY.
THE LATEST WINTER STORM MOVED
INTO THE NORTHEAST, KNOCKING OUT
POWER TO MORE THAN A MILLION
CUSTOMERS, GROUNDING HUNDREDS OF
FLIGHTS AND MAKING A MESS OF
ROADS.
AND THE DRUG-STORE CHAIN C.V.S.
ANNOUNCED IT WILL STOP SELLING
CIGARETTES AND ALL OTHER TOBACCO
PRODUCTS BY OCTOBER.
>> Ifill: ONLINE, ON THE
NEWSHOUR'S SHINY NEW WEBSITE
RIGHT NOW, BEING AN ADJUNCT
ISN'T WHAT MOST PART-TIME
UNIVERSITY FACULTY HAD IN MIND
WHEN THEY ENVISIONED BEING A
COLLEGE PROFESSOR.
WE FEATURE THE STORY OF ONE MAN
WHOSE DREAM OF TEACHING AT THE
ELITE LEVEL, TURNED OUT TO BE A
BIG DISAPPOINTMENT.
THAT'S ON MAKING SENSE.
ALL THAT AND MORE IS ON OUR WEB
SITE, newshour.pbs.org.
>> Woodruff: AND THAT'S THE
NEWSHOUR FOR TONIGHT.
I'M JUDY WOODRUFF
>> Ifill: AND I'M GWEN IFILL.
WE'LL SEE YOU ON-LINE
AND AGAIN HERE TOMORROW EVENING.
FOR ALL OF US HERE AT THE PBS
NEWSHOUR, THANK YOU AND GOOD
NIGHT.